To my dear son, my soul's joy, Shlomo, may his life candle light,

I now have an opportunity to write you a letter, so I take the time for it. We are all in good health, with god's help, and we only wait for a letter from you. Surely you've already written us a letter and we are waiting to receive it any day. I ask you, my son, to write us a detailed letter, how your health is and what is the weather there like. Here in the shop things are very poor. It's very hard on me and your dear mother. I am expecting to get a letter from you, telling us you are well there, so that we could also come to the Land of Israel. Today we've celebrated the birthday of dear Zonia, and at every moment we remembered how last year you were with us.

My dear son, I have nothing else to write to you. My wish is to hear from you good tidings, and so I now end. Hearty regards, your loyal father, Yoel.

----

Dear Salo

In a few minutes the holiday will start and the neighbors are coming to wish us a Good Year. So I too want to greet you, my beloved brother, with happiness and health, success in your life and a happy year. You yourself can understand it is difficult to greet in a letter all I feel. I wish you would never be disappointed in your life, and that you would have everything you wish for. May you accomplish in a short while the goal you strive for. Dear Salo, I so much want to see you, to hug and kiss you. But there is nothing one can do. Fate probably has wanted it another way. I wanted already yesterday to write you a long letter, but I didn't have enough time. Now I have a lot of work, because the third grade is the most difficult. But soon you will get a long letter from me, and from it you will know everything.

Hearty regards and kisses,

Zonia 