Shalom and all the best <a href="#" title="a Jewish formula for a letter">Sela</a> to my dear son, the joy of my soul, Mr. Shlomo, may his candle light forever

Last week we received two letters from you in one day, and I cannot describe to you our joy, especially the joy when the postman handed us the letters. My dear son, as you describe it to me, you are content and in good health. I ask of you again to write, if possible in Hebrew, whether you've already picked up the language. You've probably got from us the letter with the picture and 50 Zloty in cash.
I asked <a href="#" title="Saba's cousin who made Alia the same time">Nunio</a> to take some care of you and he promised to do so. My dear son, behave well with everyone. I ask you to please write me every week where you stay and also about the family.
From here there is nothing to write. We are with god's help all in good health. Business as usual. Our only topic now is Eretz Israel and Shlomo. And here I end and send you a hearty greeting and from the family too. Your father Yoel.

----

Beloved Salo,

I cannot tell you the happiness and pride as we received your lovely letter. I was still in bed when the postman brought in the letter and said: "This is for the young lady Zonia Einleger". I opened the letter immediately, and some beautiful gifts fell out. When I read the letter it seemed to me as if I was standing near you hearing your voice. Then it seemed to me that I could see you and feel the sincerity of you words. I thank you for your greetings and I too wish you a lot of happiness. I greet myself that next year I will receive your greetings in person in the land of our forefathers.

Hearty regards, your loving sister Zonia

----

My dear son,

I was very happy with your letter, although I haven't read in it what I most wanted to, meaning that you study at the university. But as I've already wrote you, dear Salo, I cannot advise you, because probably you yourself are eager to learn. Meanwhile I am content upon receiving your letter in which you write that thanks God, in good health and that your work is not too tiring. We miss you a lot and our only comfort is in your letters. When Nunio went I was happy because I knew you would be happy to meet someone from ours and be informed of everything from him. I have a lot to write to you, but because I've just returned from the shop and it is already late to send the letter by mail, I must finish now. Hearty regards and kisses, loving you, Mother.

Regards to Nunio, <a href="#" title="Not sure who these are">Zonia and Rozia</a> and to <a href="#" title="Saba's landlord in Jerusalem">Markus</a> too. I ask you Salo to write to me everything concerning you, and please add regards to all members of our family, because every one is asking about you. If you need anything, write to me and I will always try to arrange it all.

----

Dear Salo,

Please forgive me. I am very nervous and I can't write any more. I have enough to write four pages, but next time I'll write you more. Regards and kisses, Ijo