My dear brother Salo,

When you get this letter it will be exactly a year since you came to Eretz Israel.  A year ago on November, 18th  you said good bye to mother who was crying and excited until her deepest soul and serious father, full of self confidence, your brothers and sister and the entire “home.”  You said goodbye to your place of birth, the foreign land, and everything that was part of your youth.  One thing you took with you: your education from childhood, soaked in Jewish tradition.  And that education was your travel guide in your Journey in the ways of life.  For an entire year you work the land that our fathers and forefathers worked and you are fulfilling Herzl's dream [vision].  You became a Chalutz [pioneer] that with the excitement of youth parts with the <a href="#" title="The wealth and good food  in diaspora. refers to the Hebrews who left Egypt and complained about the pot of meat so as to live in poverty for an ideology">pot of meat</a>.  Today we get from Eretz alarming news about unemployment, overpopulation-- those are the echoes that reach the ears of the Jew in diaspora.  Besides that, the constant fear of attack by Arab that hangs in the air as a threatening nightmare.  The general newspapers are not reporting all these, but you can find this information here and there in the back pages.  The rest is made available to Jews here from letters that arrive from Eretz.

The truth is that part of this condition is a result of the objective conditions and the behavior of the Palestinian authorities.  But the blame is really the leadership of the Zionist organization that didn't do anything to avoid the crises.  Only now one can see the crumbling economic base upon which the life of so many workers depends.  Our Palestinian worker already today cannot make the sacrifices that the first Chalutz who arrive in Palestine made.

During the year of your stay in Palestine you experienced many experiences.   You gain experience.  Today you don't need my advice;  I wish you only health, happiness and success.  Health is up to the almighty.  Success is a result of your own doing and happiness depends on the happiness of the many.

Here with us there's nothing new.  Everything circles around the same circle.  Most important is that health is good.  In Tarnopol there was erected a grand sculpture of Yosef Pilsudski.  The grand unveiling happened last week in Poland.  Now things are very rough.  As you probably read in the newspapers, there were anti Jewish events in Warsaw and Poznan.  Everything started in the universities and ended up in the streets.  The universities shut for an unlimited period, but the government promises to do everything to retain peace and security.

I personally work in the organization and as part of my job i travel many times to remote towns.  When I was in Podvalotzisk I met Noyman who sends you regards.  Besides that, the days pass uneventful.  I give private lessons and try everything to get new lessons.  They promised me that I will in December.  What's going on with you?  Write to me more about yourself and Eretz.  Do you have work now?  Write to me if you need anything and I'll send you immediately.  Don't be embarrassed and write.  Maybe you need money?  I am willing to send you all that I have.  Write often.

Warn regards and kisses,

Izo
