Dear Salo,

Here at home, everything is as usual. We feel your absence every step. If at least we were sure that you’re content and don’t regret the <a href="#" title="Going to Palestine">step that you took</a>. Firstly, take care of your health because that’s the main cause for happiness. Write to me Salo in length. Do you need anything? Try to eat well and rest after work. The markets here have oranges. <a href="#" title="Saba's sister">Zonia</a> asks me all the time to buy oranges from Palestine. She kisses and strokes them and keeps saying that hey passed through your hands.

I kiss and hug you,

Your loving mother

----

Shlomkeh my dear,

Finally, I am sitting down to write to you. I waited till now for your letter but, since you didn’t write anything, I wanted to be first. I don’t write this to make you feel guilty, I know you’re busy. I’m very curious to know what you do and how you feel. Do you miss Tarnopol? What are your working conditions? What professions are needed in Palestine? Since you left, I miss you so much that somedays I can’t even study. In Tarnopol and in school, there’s nothing new. Now it’s the second semester in school. I want to pass the matriculation exams quickly so I can go to Palestine. Is there a higher education institution that accepts students without a matriculation certificate? In Tarnopol, many already signed up for <a href="#" title="Immigration to Palistine">aliyah</a> especially those friends that got their certification.

Love,

<a href="#" title="Saba's cousin">Yoel</a>