Dear <a href="#" title="Nickname for Saba">Lumttzo</a>,

I truly can’t justify my silence till now. I didn’t even answer your last letter and didn’t thank you for the nice present you sent <a href="#" title="Munyo was born in 1935 so he was probably about 7 when he perished">Munyo</a> (That’s my new son name). The framed picture is hanging by his bed. For me, your present has an immense value because it’s from you. I got your letter right on <a href="#" title="The redemption of the first born. A Jewish tradition where first born son is redeemed by use of silver coins from his birth state of sanctity">Pidyon Haben</a> During the party, your letter passed from hand to hand and you were the main topic of conversation around the table and through the evening. Sometimes, it was a bit exaggerated. Father was, as always during family parties, in an elevated good mood and told everyone about you. Your credit shot up the sky.

I’m sorry, I really wanted to apologize for not writing to you. <a href="#" title="Milo’s wife">Salka</a> was very sick. We consulted with many doctors and experts. They suspected a kidney infection where surgery is inevitable and in her case, right after giving birth, that could be very risky. But thank goodness she recovered after 10 days. Then, unfortunately, the baby got sick too. I had many doctors over and had to hire a wet nurse. Now, everything is fine.
<a href="#" title="Saba’s sister">Zonia</a> comes by every day. She is delighted to be an aunt.I am thrilled with my baby son but all this time I haven’t slept enough. Lipa is in Tarnopol now and he told me everything about you. He came here to get engaged but it didn’t work out. Maybe it’s just the wrong timing for him.

I end my letter and send you a hearty Shalom and lots of kisses.

<a href="#" title="Saba’s brother">Milo</a>