Dear Salo,

I wanted to let you know that last week I completed my <a href="#" title="end of high school exams">matriculations</a> and two weeks ago I was exempt fro military service.

Getting my matriculation certificate was easy. I got grade of Very Good in Polish, German and religious studies. In History, Physics and Math, I got grade of Good.

What helped me a lot was the thesis I wrote, the one I told you about before. It might even be published through the school’s press. The topic was the influence of the bible on the work “Anhali”.
The preface was written by Prof. Spital.
Nine students failed the matriculation including Gold and Littch.
So, I graduated. I spent the Shabbat partially in synagogue, partly at home. Today I feel only emptiness as if life has no propose. In the next few days, I will fill up an application to be admitted to the Hebrew University. Write to me what profession I need to study before I go to Palestine.

Now I turn to you with a couple of questions: Is there an archive near the Hebrew University or a collection of ancient manuscripts? If so, is anyone already studying them? Or are they laying there untouched? Are there lots of hand written manuscripts? Are they gathered or are they scattered around? Besides the Hebrew University, is there in Jerusalem or Palestine another literary or historical archive?

I ask that you answer my questions ASAP in details.
How are you? Are you healthy? Write about everything.

Kisses, Izo

Regards from Klugman, Blimka, Yetty and others.