Sent from Tarnopol

Dear Salo,

Your last letter to me made me very happy. You wrote that you showed my letter to friends because it’s packed with political ideology, but to tell you the truth when I read these words I blushed.  The thing is, my patriotic feeling is, no doubt, the hottest, broadest, and most justified, but your patriotism is not just words without fulfilling it.  My dear brother, I criticize myself when I know in what conditions you live.  I know that you live in harsh conditions, especially with the current political situation.  Hear, at home, we are aware of that—that you must earn your bread by yourself, when you can come back home and get financial help.  You, from the day you left to the present, always write the same letters—that things are good and will get better.   You believe in a better tomorrow.  You are not like the others that write home letters full of worries, like Olek Tytelbaum.  

Salo, my dear, you and friends like you will enter the Jewish and international history.  In the entire world history there is not one phenomenon like that that you fulfill now in Eretz.  To our sorrow, the majority of the world not only does not show sympathy, but, to the contrary, they put sticks in the wheels.  For example, in Poland the hooligans declare that Jews kill Arabs.  But you stand tall and strong on your land.  But you are wrong, my dear brother, when you write that here, in Diaspora, our spirits are faltering.  No, my brother, we follow every quiver of the atmosphere in Palestine and we don’t spare any attempt to get there to live and fight with you.  We are jealous of you (without exaggeration) that you were blessed to be there—in the forefront of the struggle.  Lots of times, I dream at night about you and I would like to be near you.  Why, temporarily, am I not there?  That’s for another letter.

Yesterday I spoke with fux who just arrived from Eretz.  He talks a lot about you.  He is getting married soon to Ms. Landes.  In my next letter I’ll write about the verdict in the Pshitik case and other matters.  Meantime, I ask that you write what’s going on with you, but in great details.

Lots of regards and kisses.  

- Ijo

Regards from Professors Stopol, Hirshberg, Klugman and Joel.  Sonia is not home—that’s why she didn’t write. 

P.S.  we had a terrible tragedy—Hershel Horowitz was struck by the train.  The funeral was a couple of days ago.