Dear Salo,

Even though I didn't get a reply from you for my previous letter, I am writing to you again to give you, as i promised, a picture of Jewish life in Poland. No doubt your newspapers are reporting what's new in Poland and maybe even more than the media in Poland, which is still under the steady watchful eye of the left. So you probably know about Brast, Pshitik, Minsk, and Tasnstochva, about the political, economic and (xxxx) boycott. The economic boycott seems the worst and it brings thousands of Jews to poverty level. Our Hitlers, in the fashion of their cousins in the west are putting guards near Jewish stores and prevent citizens from entering these stores. The situation reached fist fights and blood shed.

A true religious war is being waged near the <a href="#" title="kiosks">stands</a> in the market place. Jewish merchants, owners of stands, were confronted by an attitude of resentment and rejection for a generation by non Jews. The Jew with his stand that's entire value does not exceed 20 Zloties was declared enemy of Poland and as such was oppressed and bullied. The picture of life of the Jews in the villages is harsh. In Poland the medievil principle of collective punishment is the rule. It's enough that one Jew kills a Pollock for self-defense, that hundreds of innocent Jews will have to pay for it. Their property is destroyed and the police get involved only after a few hours. In Brest, the threatening wave of antisemitism started in the west and today it already reached us. In Tarnopol, for example, there is an agricultural fair every year and this year, for the first time the stands were rented only to catholics and the Jews were only given few side kiosks. Besides, the catholics were exempt from any fee and the Jews were forced to pay high fees.

So that's how the situation in Poland looks and gets worse and worse from day to day. For us, personally things are going relatively well. Our store is doing well. The boycott is felt but it's not serious. During the time I wrote this letter, I got your letter and read it in true pleasure a few times. As to your trip to America, i think there will be many difficulties. As you yourself mentioned, the living expenses and tuition are tremendous. The truth is that you are used to work and you will succeed to make a living there, but I doubt that if you give private lessons, you will be able to concentrate on your studies. If you want to devote yourself to studies you must do that full time and intensively. Even if you'll have few hours left, that is absolutely not enough for giving lessons. Besides I doubt if someone will sponsor you (even fictitiously???). And to work without studies doesn't make sense. The idea of going to Italy seems better to me. Just today I spoke to a few people who came from there. The expenses per month are 120 Zloties (including tuition). You can study in any faculty you choose. They don't ask for sponsors to support you and they accept everybody. This plan to go to Italy I think is the most realistic.

I am sure that after few years Italy will push and demand people to go to Ethiopia, that with time will become what America once was for thousands of poor citizens all over the world.

My loved brother, write a lot to me, and in detail, about you and life in Eretz. With me, nothing special is happening. Dad wants me to get engaged, even started to make a shidvch?? to a rich girl. But I don't even want to think about it. Also, it won't run away in a few years. I already see, from my <a href="#" title="Saba's other brother">Miltzy</a> the value of marriage for money. Shabat is entering, so I am ending. I ask you, dear Salo, answer immediately and write a lot. Do you get the newspapers I am sending you every few days? I kiss you and bless you with all my heart.


Izo
