My very dear father,

When you open this letter, you'll probably be surprised that I'm writing in pencil and not with a pen and ink. The reason for this, I'm at the lowest spot in the world, the Sea of Salt.

As you might already know, my dear father, about 8 years ago a Jew from Siberia by the name of Nuchimobsky, got license from the British government to manufacture Beromium and Ashlag (an agricultural chemical) from the Sea of Salt or, as it is called in many languages, the Dead Sea.

About 400-600 people are working here permanently. They are now building big warehouses and, of course they need to be painted which is why I'm here and writing with a pencil.

The Dead Sea transformed in the last 8 years into a very live sea. A lot of laborers are working here and they mostly live in very nice houses and some in huts. They have here all the comforts like in a small village: bath, showers with hot & cold water, electricity, cinema, radio, newspapers and a reading hall.

Can you imagine? now that where you are is so very cold, we are walking around only in light clothing. I have work here for about 3 weeks.
I feel very well and, again, send you lots of kisses.

Yours,

Shlomo
 
-----
 
Dear Mom,

I never thought that with my profession I would be traveling all over Palesteine. Only a tear ago, when I worked in Tsfat, I toured the northern part of the country and, now that I work near the Dead Sea, I tour the southern part. Can you imagine that I am now near the Dead Sea that as a result of Jewish hand labor has become alive and gives livelihood to some hundreds of families. The landscape is magnificent. Wild desert nature. The sea is surrounded by the mountains of Palestine and Jordan; among them they pointed out to me the mountain on which God showed Moses the land of Palestine.

Especially on full moon nights, it's hard to describe the beauty. Right now is the nicest time of the year. The days are warm but not burning hot and the nights are cool and pleasant. Once in a while there's a little rain.
I need to stay here 3 weeks and I'm using the opportunity to visit the factory, something that is only allowed to workers.

Life here is very happy among the young people.

Lots of kisses from the lowest spot in the world,

Salo

----

_NOTE(jon): i'm not sure how we have letters from saba?_