Tarnopol, 5/1/1937

My dear son, After 5 weeks we finally got your letter that I so longed for. I assume from it that maybe you don’t have a job any more. I think that <a href="#" title="a relative">Nunyo</a> already met you after he talked with Dad about the financial problem. As I wrote, the tuition can be paid after Pesach so there’s still time to talk about it.

Meanwhile, don’t worry and don’t be too proud. Always talk to the cousins and we, with aunt <a href="#" title="Saba had relatives who came to Palestine">Rivkah</a> will take care of it. The loving, loyal son always turns to his parents in time of need. If you can get a certificate that you’re a student, something I asked you to do a long time ago, we’ll be able to send you a sum of money every month and things will be much better.

So Salo dear, anytime you’re in need, contact us and don’t skimp on living expenses, because health is the greatest treasure. Write to us in details and listen to our advice.

Here, everything is the same. During the holidays there’s more business. <a href="#" title="Shmuel- Saba’s brother">Shultzu</a> already moved to his apartment. He has a very cute and smart <a href="#" title="Munyo was born in 1935">little boy</a>. He now resides in center of town at Mrs. Bazdovah and that’s very close to us. He has an apartment with 2 rooms and a kitchen.
I almost wrote everything and now be healthy and don’t worry.

I bless you and kiss you,

Your loving Mom

Regards to all the relatives.

-----

Dear Salo,

I thank you for adding words to me in your last letter. You write to me in Hebrew. Unfortunately, I am going now to second year of <a href="#" title="high school">Gymnasia</a> of the new kind which is equal to 4th class of the past. As you probably know, I got accepted straight into 2nd class so I have two new languages to study, German and Latin. So I was forced to give up my Hebrew studies for awhile. So I ask you to write to me in Polish. My vacation is ending and I have to get to work. Here, in Tarnopol there’s nothing new. <a href="#" title="Saba's brother">Miltzhu</a> moved to a new apartment and Munyo is a very cute boy. I asked him to say the names of his uncles and aunts and he says everything but it’s hard for him to pronounce <a href="#" title="Saba’s last name before he changed it to Yoeli">Einleger</a>.

He is very mischievous.

How are things with you?

I ask that you write me a detailed letter, soon.

Regards and kisses,

Zonia