<a href="#" title="Traditional orthodox way of starting a letter with 'With god's help'">B.H.</a>
 
To my beloved sone the jewel of my soul, Mr. Shlomo, may his candle be lit
 
Firstly, I'm very satisfied that you were accepted to the university. To this day, I was agonized when I remembered that you work ther (in Palestein) as simple laborer.
And now, my dear son I urge you that you start a new life and write to me what you need so I can send you from here as much as you need.
As I see it, it's still not quiet there so I ask that you take care and don't walk around in the streets. I am under the opinion that it would be best if you now return to Tarnopol and wait till the allmighty help and the situation change for the best.

Here , with god's help, everything is fine. We work in the store. If you have our newspapers in Polish, you probably already know what's happening here. The antisemism is increasing from day to day and we're not sure how we'll support ourselves. Now, a new restriction. Starting 1/3 1938 they are doing away with all the permissions to sell tobaco and we can already imagine who will get the new permissions

Fornot one only has risen up against us, but in every generation there are some who rise up against us, to annihilate us, but the Most Holy, <a href="#" title="a quote fro the Hagaddah">blessed be he, has delivered us out of their hand.</a>
I have nothing more to write and am ending. I and the whole family send you heary warm wishes.
 
Happy Passover, do you have a Seder to go to? I wish you were here with us. 

Have a wonderful birthday,

Love,

Mom

Your father Yoel

----
_NOTE(jon): the date doesn't make sense given the passover context_