Dear Salo,

It's been a while since I have written to you.  I can't find any excuse as I know that this is my fault.  In the last few days I have no patience to write even papers for school.  And as evening approaches I find it difficult to sit down and read a book.  You are probably reading the newspapers from Poland, but you don't know what's happening in Tarnopol. For a few days, and actually as always before the holidays, they are boycotting Jewish stores and distributing fliers, one of which I am sending to you. But on Tuesday they were not content with the attacks few Jews of different ages were wounded.  The police did interfere, but with an hour and a half delay and even then, not at all to the streets where they were needed.  You can imagine that the Goyim got their <a href="#" title="of beatings">fair share</a>, but on our side the number of casualties was much higher.  Yesterday, that is on Wednesday, there were many cops patrolling the streets, but they were making sure that nothing will happen to the tough guys who were attacking the Jewish stores.  In the evening you could hardly meet a Jew in the street, but later at nine thirty two Jewish girls were poked with rusted pins and they immediately got blood poisoning.

Beside that, I can bring you news that in Tarnopol there opened a lot of new Catholic stores and they only survive thanks to the generous credit our Jews are giving them.

I can not write any more and I have no patience, so I am ending this letter and kissing you with all my heart.

Yours,

Sonia

P.S  Thanks for the foreign stamps.  Thanks to them my stamp album is becoming much heavier.

Regards to Roza, Zonia, Nanyo, Lipa and all the others.