Soviet stamp: May 21, 1941 - Tarnopol

To: <a href="#" title="This is very interesting because it shows that his parents knew that he changed his last name to Yoeli">Solomon Yoeli</a>, Hadassa Hospital, Jerusalem, Palestine

From: Einleger, Tarnopol, Listopada St. #6

With god’s blessing to my dear son, the jewel of my soul, mr. Shlomo

This is in answer to your postcard dated February 26, you cannot imagine the pleasure we had. I ask you to write more often. Here, with god’s blessing, everything is alright. Izo also will probably stop studying and will start to work. Shmuel is working as a bookkeeper. I don’t have anything else to write. I am so happy that you got a high position. May god help you and that we’ll hear only good news. Regard from all your family, your father, Joel.

Salo my dear, I was so happy to get your postcard from February 26. Good news from you were always always for me a great happiness. Now our only wish is happiness for the children. Write to me, my dear son, how is your work now? is it less tiring and is the payment higher? But the most important thing at work is to also think about health. We, thank god, are healthy. Aunt Rivka brings us every information from your letters that she gets. Kisses, with all my heart, Mom. Regards form us and from Aunt Rivka.

Salo my dear, yesterfday we got a letter from Izo and your postcard. I am so happy you correspond with us- nothing is new. Two days ago I completed school and tomorrow I begin my matriculation. On June 16 I will know the results and let you know. I ask you, write more often- at least twice a month. Besides that, there’s nothing new. <a href="#" title="Shmuel">Miltzu</a> works and after matriculations I’ll be looking for a job because, economically, higher educatino is not possible. Lots of regard from the family, hearty kisses, Sonia.