To my dear son, my soul's joy, Shlomo, may his life candle light,

I now have an opportunity to write you a letter, so I take the time for it. We are all in good health, with god's help, and we only wait for a letter from you. Surely you've already written us a letter and we are waiting to receive it any day. I ask you, my son, to write us a detailed letter, how your health is and what is the weather there like. Here in the shop things are very poor. It's very hard on me and your dear mother. I am expecting to get a letter from you, telling us you are well there, so that we could also come to the Land of Israel. Today we've celebrated the birthday of dear Zonia, and at every moment we remembered how last year you were with us.

My dear son, I have nothing else to write to you. My wish is to hear from you good tidings, and so I now end. Hearty regards, your loyal father, Yoel.

----

Dear Salo

In a few minutes the holiday will start and the neighbors are coming to wish us a Good Year. So I too want to greet you, my beloved brother, with happiness and health, success in your life and a happy year. You yourself can understand it is difficult to greet in a letter all I feel. I wish you would never be disappointed in your life, and that you would have everything you wish for. May you accomplish in a short while the goal you strive for. Dear Salo, I so much want to see you, to hug and kiss you. But there is nothing one can do. Fate probably has wanted it another way. I wanted already yesterday to write you a long letter, but I didn't have enough time. Now I have a lot of work, because the third grade is the most difficult. But soon you will get a long letter from me, and from it you will know everything.

Hearty regards and kisses,

Zonia

----

Dear Salo,

I take the opportunity to write this unexpected letter since Eisentein is going to Palestine.
It’s now 6 pm Around the table sit many children, Zonia’s girlfriends. Zonia herself is the “bride”
of the party because today we are celebrating her <a title="Zonia was born in late December, 1923 so she probably turned 11. She was killed around 1942 - 44 about 20">birthday</a>.
She sits all aglow and remembers in longing how a year ago you also sat by this table and
sang, “Till one hundred and twenty” to her.
The room is very noisy now and its hard for me to concentrate on my thoughts.
At this moment, you are the lucky one as you stroll on the land of Palestine.

Dear father talks about you all the time and how he wants to follow your steps.
Dear mother is thinking about you all the time and talks about you. She says, “Why did I really
sent him there?” Yesterday we heard that some Greek ship was damaged in an accident and
mother was worried sick that it’s your ship.
It didn’t help that we persuaded her that you’r already in Eretz Israel (the land of Israel) for a
while now.

I don’t ask you a whole column of questions because I know you’ll probably answer some of my
questions in the future letter.
With me everything is the same. I must put more efforts into my studies but I don’t feel like it.
Write to me how you manage in Palestine.
I must point to you that all your letters pass thorough the hands of all the uncles, aunts and
relatives so keep that in mind when you are writing to me

I await your answer and kiss you,

Izo