My dear brother Salo,

Your last letter caused me pleasure that I can’t even describe in words. At the same time, I felt horrified when I read about the death of the three Jewish heroes. This picture got inscribed in my memory forever. 
Dear Salo, The currant situation in Eretz makes those who stay there heroes that would be written up in history. And you are among them, my beloved brother. 
Sometimes I can’t even visualize to myself that my own brother is fulfilling a historical role. There is hardly any time for words.
Here, in diaspora, there is an atmosphere of tension, filled with explosives that might blow up any moment. The newspapers announce day after day new casualties and <a title="In 1936, there were Arab terror attacks against the Jewish population">terrorism</a>.

And we sit here and our hands are tied. The number of <a title="To emigrate to Palestine">certificates</a> is so small that it’s not enough to satisfy the minimal demand. Never in my life was I so determined to come to Eretz Israel as I am right now. 
My dear brother, write to me about everything in great details and I would be thankful to you.

Besides that, where do you work now? From what do you make a living? Is there work in Eretz at all? Do they continue to build? Do you see some relaxation in the horizon? Who is taking responsibility for the terror attacks? How many Jewish fatalities? How many Arabs? How does the Arab worker survive if he doesn’t work for so long? Where do you get food from if you can’t get it from the villages?
Write everything.

I send you heart regards, and strong hugs.

Your loving brother,

Izo
