Dear Salo,

Firstly, I apologize that I didn’t write to you in such a long time. I was sick but now, thank god, I am feeling better. Your last letters brought me lots of joy because I felt some satisfaction in them and that you are feeling well. But it’s also clear that things could be better.
Here nothing much is new. In the next few days I am sitting down to study. Besides that, I am
getting the management of the department of <a title="maybe an insurance company?">P.K.O.</a>
and if I succeed that will give me a nice income.

The <a title="Jewish youth organization">Bar Kochva</a> members ask why you don’t write to them and
what you’re doing. You are also the subject of conversation among many other people who can’t
believe that you work and study at the same time.
At home nothing much is new. I’m worried about our dear mother’s health. Although she doesn’t
complain, I can see that it’s not what it should be.

In my last letter I wrote to you about the problems in the universities here but, to my despair,
the relationships didn’t improve. The <a title="A fascistic, anti-Semite movement">Andaki</a> youth put as
their “honorary“ goal (as If they really have any honor) not to sit on the same benches as Jews.
And so, they designated separate sitting for Jews on benches on the left side.
On this background, there are daily violent incidents in almost all the universities (except
Krakov). The Andakis are going berserk.

I’ll write to you more in my next letter.

Kisses and well wishes,

Izo