Dear Salo,

Your last letter and especially the picture, made me very happy. I am glad that you asked me about my future plans. It’s difficult for me to give you an answer right now. My thoughts are lead-ing me to the land of Israel. Our parents disapproval don’t allow me to fulfill my plans. 

These days I am beginning to study English and German. At the beginning of winter I’ll start studying Hebrew.
The latest news from Eretz bring a little relief but still we read about the continued terrorist acts and <a title="Saba’s father had a newspaper store and read papers from Europe & Palestine">disturbances</a>. We are extremely worried because of the embargo that was declared by the <a title="Islamic leader at that time">Mufti</a>. Here, in Poland, we know all too well what an embargo feels like. Write to me about this Arab embargo. Does it threaten life there? and in what scale?. Besides this write more about the general situation you are facing. Here in Poland, everything is as it was. In spite of the formal relief after the <a title="Izo wrote about the massacre in Pshitik in his letter of 22.3.1936">Pshitik trial</a> the persecution doesn’t stop. I wouldn’t exaggerate if I say that in the last six months, at least as many Jews died here as the number of Jews who died in Eretz by hidden snipers. The difference is that in Eretz, Jews fall on the altar of a sacred goal and here...

In the last few days the attacks on Jewish students in the universities increased. In the <a title="probably an anti-Semitic paper">Endacit</a> journalism the poison increases.

Now I’ll tell you some gossip from Tarnopol. Manheim got married to his girlfriend. Vinkler is still going out with his piece of ass, Solomon also got married. In a few days Mashlosha Karl will get engaged to Israel. And another interesting gossip, Farber from Mitzkayvitz Street got involved with some pretty chick from Tarnopol that another doctor was also smitten with. That caused a quarrel between the two guys that led to violence and ended up in a trial.

Now something about family matters. Our dear parents thank god are healthy. So is <a title="Saba’s sister, probably 13 or 14 at the time">Zonia</a> You wouldn’t recognize her. She turned into an attractive maiden. Also <a title="Saba’s brother">Miltzu</a> is doing O.K. He opened a pretty good business across the street from our store. Sometimes he earns few zloties in the “street.” Our business suffers now from lots of competition. The business with Bator finally got <a title="Saba’s father had a partner in some land that they both owned . There was a bitter trial over ownership & Saba’s father won.">settled</a>. Bator himself, in the last day of the trial died from a heart attack. 

The single most serious thing now is aunt Gosta that we owe her a few hundred dollars. She also owes us money but the bitch doesn’t want to recognize her obligations and on that background there is a conflict.
Now my dear brother, how are things with you? I heard that many people from Eretz are coming to Poland in time for Pesach. Maybe you should also try to come home? You will delight all of us. We miss you. Don’t worry about the expenses. Just make the necessary arrangements and we’ll try to get an approval from the authorities.

Write to me if you are still continuing to work in painting with lacquer and how do you live and other interesting things.

With hearty regards, 

Your loving brother,

Izo