+++

+++
---
title: Monday, March 23, 1936
date: 1936-03-23 00:00:48 +0000  
---

Dear Salo,

I thank you with all my heart for your letter. It gave me great joy. I am sending to you, with Ruzia, the books that you asked for: Culture by Shtchefansky, Latin by Levitzky and historical map by Putreger. As in last time, I am sending you writing paper for letters. If there’s anything else that you lack, write to me and you’ll get it immediately.

When you get this letter you will be celebrating your birthday. We will celebrate it here. It’s already your third birthday in Eretz Israel. Probably you are feeling sad on such a day when non of your relatives are by you. Accept my wishes from far away. They are coming out from the depth of my heart.

I wanted to send you some souvenir for your birthday but I know that you need practical things so I sent razor blades that you’ll find inside the socks.

In your last letter you asked what’s happening with my P.K.O. Well, I got to be an agent of the P.K.O. life insurance department. I’ll be able to earn my expenses like tuition, cloths etc.

I am studying now but I doubt if I’ll pass this exam. I don’t know why but I have a feeling that I won’t be able to.

Now as to your questions about “Love Affairs” in Tarnopol and especially mine, I can tell you: of course I am not lagging behind, but it’s not what it once was. But I am curious to know how things are with you in that department. I heard a lot about life in Palestine and I assume that you aren’t exactly sleepy. After all, in Eretz Israel, the blood is <a title="This must mean that he heard about sexual freedom in Palestine">boiling</a>. Did you find someone? or maybe more than one? Write about it, but only the truth. You know that I love these sort of things.

You probably heard about the situation in Poland, about the massacre in Pshitik.

The victims are 3 dead Jews and 22 wounded. The boycott increases from day to day. The authorities not only aren’t against it but they call for anti Jewish acts openly and without boundaries. So for example is the last public letter of Grims (I am enclosing it).

How are things with you? How do you pass your time?

Hearty regards,

Kisses and all good wishes,

Izo