Alexandria, Egypt

My dear beloved,

I’m really a "big pig" that I didn’t write to you until today. Yesterday I sent you a few words and a photo and I thought that in the evening I’ll write a longer letter but I was so tired that I couldn’t.

Now my correspondence has expanded to acquaintances in Cairo and I have to thank them for their hospitality. Truly, I had a wonderful time in Cairo and since I know this interests you I’ll describe my visit.

On Sunday, after night shift, I left for Cairo and in the afternoon I went to see the Pyramids and the Sphinx. We rode by car and then on camels. But we didn’t ride like tourists for 5 or 10 minutes. We rode for 2 hours between the Pyramids and the historic excavations. I cant even tell you what I experienced in a letter-- maybe I’ll be able to do that better face to face.

When I looked at the Pyramids and the Sphinx, I felt so small against this gigantic beings that were created by humans. The huge Sphinx was carved from one stone. The Pyramids conceal inside them mysterious ancient temples and empty tombs of kings that died thousands of years ago. You walk around and can’t believe your eyes. Is this possible? Am I really seeing this? I sent you lots of pictures so you can get an impression of what I saw. I was sorry about one thing—- that I shared my experience with strangers and not with you. We could have wondered about the beauty together. At sunset, the camels brought us to a Cafe inside a garden with music, drinks and dancing. At 9 pm started the second half of the plan. First, they brought me to places the likes of which I’ve never seen before. A fantastic Arabic Cabaret of 10-15 minute skits. After that, an elegant dinner with waiters in the front and waiters in the back. It’s great to experience this once but I wouldn’t want to live like this forever.

After the meal, we rode in a carriage around town and cruised around the Nile. The Nile is lit from above with crossing lights and everywhere there’s music, music and more music.

On Wednesday morning I traveled to some other places and then I traveled back with a private companion and chocolate.

I am ending this long scroll because in 2 days, I’ll write to you again.

I kiss you, stay healthy.

Yours,

Tzilli