Alexandria Feb 1st 1941

My dear,

Last evening, after much hardship I arrived here. As usual, nothing went completely smooth, but all is well that ends well.
And now, let me tell you what happened to me from the moment I saw you waving good bye at the King David hotel.

We drove in a taxi till Lod and from there, by train-- 1st class till Kantara. It was difficult and uncomfortable on the train. Finally, we arrived. Everybody already knew of our arrival so there was no misunderstanding. We passed through the Suez Canal by ferry till the train station and than some of us traveled by boat. It was beautiful, so beautiful that I almost forgot all the hardship. We were supposed to continue to Cairo but suddenly, BANG… four of us were stopped: Zina, Roza, me & Batia S. because we have different passports. Right away they wanted to send us back home. I already imagined how it would be when, suddenly I would open the door and stand in front of you… I almost made peace with my ill fortune but the almighty intervened and telephones and telegrams started flying back and forth all the way to the highest authorities. Finally they decided to lock us up till the morning. All the rest continued. I think that I’ll never forget that night. I won’t begin to write about it. I’ll tell you that face to face, and there’s a lot to be told…

In short, everything was arranged and at 1PM we left by taxi that was sent especially for us.
Shlomo, it was wonderful. We drove fast across the land and in front of our eyes stretched fairy tale landscapes. Along the way stretched the famous Egyptian canals that look like rivers. We passed through villages, parks, greenery and then-- an endless desert. Sand, sand and then, again, vast patches of greenery and harvest.

I sat in the car not making any personal accounts-- what is the purpose of my trip? why I am going and what in fact I left behind? I fantasized that it was a vacation and I felt good.
At 5PM we were in Cairo and they were waiting on us everywhere and greeting us. Our supervisor waited for us and immediately put us on the train. At 9PM we were already there.

First impression after I entered the room that was assigned to me-- a fairy-tale. I never had a room like this. I’ll describe it in details: closet with three doors. In the middle, a glass door and shelves for books and underneath-- drawers, a big comfortable bed and next to it-- night table. By the wall, a desk and a chair upholstered in leather. A little couch, round table, on the floor-- a carpet. Everything is made of gorgeous brown wood. The room is sunny and airy and you can see the sea through the window. Shlomo, don’t think I am exaggerating, not at all. The food is better than fantastic and you don’t have to lift a finger. You are being waited on by servants from every which way.

We’ll probably start working in three to four days and I don’t think that the work will be difficult. My personal vacation will be limited but I don’t think it will be a problem for me. I’ll have more time to think about you (don’t laugh). I’ll be well behaved and try not to embarrass you.
Be healthy my love, don’t miss me too much and behave well. If the current situation will end, I’ll be back very soon.

Write to me immediately, Tzilli