Alexandria, Egypt


My beloved Shlomo, you are a loving wonderful young man and I’m glad that you’re keeping your promise to write often. I got your letter this morning when I was in bed. Of course, I didn’t part with it and I think it helped me because I slept for 7 hours straight. So I found a new remedy: from now on, I’ll sleep with a bundle of your letters and as a result, I might not suffer again from insomnia. A great medicine, don’t you think? Don’t laugh but your letters give me a feeling of relaxation, I stop being nervous and I fall asleep.
 
In another 3 nights, I’ll be finished with night shift and then I’ll be going to Cairo for 4 days. I’m delighted with transferring the night shift to Zina Feldman. I’ll work together with her for 3 nights so as to prep her & get her ready for the job. 
 had no trouble this month with the night shift. I’m surprised at myself that I got along so well.
 
Oh, excuse me, the supervisor wants to see me, I have to go.
 
Just returned after an hour. Well, it wasn’t just a routine talk. This time it was something special. They introduced me to the King himself who is a close friend of the supervisor and visits the hospital frequently under an assumed name.

We have to stay here till September 15, otherwise we won’t get a job in Hadassah. So I tell you Shlomo that I won’t stay here later than July 31, even if they threaten to take away my benefits in Hadassah for the rest of my life.
 
Lately I saw the movie, The Great Dictator with Charlie Chaplin. Did you see it? If so, what do you think of it?
 
Yes, there’s something else I wanted to tell you. As you know, we work here with 6 gentile Polish nurses. Today, at lunch time, I couldn’t find my napkin at the regular place. Then I found it on the other end of the table. I noticed that the sitting was changed for the other Jewish nurses too. And so, quietly, the head nurse created a ghetto at the dining room table. On one side, the Jewish nurses, on the other side, the Polish nurses. Ugly, don’t you think? I try to stay away from such stuff but the dirt is climbing above my ears.

And so, we sat there and often had to listen to anti-semitic conversations. We even complained to the supervisor about it. Try to make sure that what I told you will reach Hadassah and that they will understand us.

I already wrote to you about many things. Write to me my dearest about everything. Anything about you interests me.

I kiss you a lot on the mouth and a little on the tip of your nose,

Yours,

Tzilli